README.md, before:

# To Do Application - Backend RUBY ON RAILS

This is a Todo API using Ruby on Rails. The goal is to create the backend that has the CRUD actions for users.

# Installation

Clone this repository onto your machine. Ensure that you have Ruby on Rails installed. For more information see [ROR](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

Once the repository is on your machine get into the folder on your terminal and run the following commands

```
rails db:create
rails db:migrate
rails db:seed
```

These commands will create the database. A seeds file will have a sample data set of tasks that can be seeded into your database.

To see the data in your browser run the following command in your terminal

```
rails server
```

This will start a server on your machine. Go to your browser (I use google chrome) and go to the this url, http://localhost:3000/todos.json You will be able to see the json data. Ensure to use a JSON viewer extension on your browser.

# Minimum Viable Product

- Allow users to see all of their tasks (complete)
- Allow users to create a task (complete)
- Allow users to see an individual tasks (complete)
- Allow users to update a task (complete)
- Allow users to delete a task (complete)
- Allow users to sign up (complete)
- Allow users to login and logout (complete)

# Future Features

- Allow users to create task lists
- Allow users to prioritize tasks
- Allow users to categorize tasks
- Allow users to set due dates and get notifications

# Usage

This repository will be used with a React frontend but can be cloned for anyone to improve or use with their own frontend.

Commit message:

made create action and tested in http and test controller. Works in http but there is an error with the test. Functionality works but need to find out why test controller has failure.

README.md, after:

# To Do Application - Backend RUBY ON RAILS

This is a Todo API using Ruby on Rails. The goal is to create the backend that has the CRUD actions for users.

# Installation

Clone this repository onto your machine. Ensure that you have Ruby on Rails installed. For more information see [ROR](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

Once the repository is on your machine get into the folder on your terminal and run the following commands

```
rails db:create
rails db:migrate
rails db:seed
```

These commands will create the database. A seeds file will have a sample data set of tasks that can be seeded into your database.

To see the data in your browser run the following command in your terminal

```
rails server
```

This will start a server on your machine. There is user authentication being used to view the data. Use the test_reqeusts.http file to login and copy the jwt response to the jwt variable. Then you can go through each action to create, read, update, and delete lists and tasks.

# Minimum Viable Product

- Allow users to see all of their tasks (complete)
- Allow users to create a task (complete)
- Allow users to see an individual tasks (complete)
- Allow users to update a task (complete)
- Allow users to delete a task (complete)
- Allow users to sign up (complete)
- Allow users to login and logout (complete)

# Future Features

- Allow users to create task lists (In progress)
- Allow users to prioritize tasks
- Allow users to categorize tasks
- Allow users to set due dates and get notifications

# Usage

This repository will be used with a React frontend but can be cloned for anyone to improve or use with their own frontend.
